[Follower] Sync using snapshot. (#133)
movementlabsxyz/movement-docs: docs/devs/followerNode_from_genesis.md

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Run a Follower Node

> This guide will help you set up and run a Movement follower node. The Bardock Testnet and Mainnet currently support this feature. Learn more about Node architecture [here](/general/Mainnet/node_level_architecture). For simplicity we have provided instruction for deploying using an Ansible script below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will help you set up and run a Movement follower node. The Bardock Testnet and Mainnet currently support this feature. Learn more about Node architecture [here](/general/Mainnet/node_level_architecture). For simplicity we have provided instructions for deploying using an Ansible script below. 
```

## Hardware Recommendations

- 32 cores
- 64 GB RAM
- 2 TB SSD w/ 60K IOPS and 200 MiB/s throughput

## Deployment

### Clone Movement Repository 

```bash

git clone https://github.com/movementlabsxyz/movement
cd movement

```

### Configuration

> To access to the leader Da to get blocks, the follower IP must be declared in the white access list. Contact Movement to add the access. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access to the leader DA to get blocks, the follower IP must be declared in the white access list. Contact Movement to add the access. 
```

> Update the Variables below in the `movement-full-follower.yml` file for Mainnet. This is located in `docs/movement-node/run/ansible/follower-node/mainnet` or `docs/movement-node/run/ansible/follower-node/` depending on if you are deploying to Mainnet or Testnet. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the variables below in the `movement-full-follower.yml` file for Mainnet. This is located in `docs/movement-node/run/ansible/follower-node/mainnet` or `docs/movement-node/run/ansible/follower-node/` depending on if you are deploying to mainnet or testnet. 
```

No need for capitalisation.

#### Mainnet Configuration
 
```yaml

vars:
    repo_url: "https://github.com/movementlabsxyz/movement"
    destination_path: "/home/{{ user }}/movement"
    movement_sync: 'follower::mainnet-l-sync-bucket-sync<=>{default_signer_address_whitelist,maptos,maptos-storage,suzuka-da-db}/**'
    chain_id: "126"

    movement_da_light_node_connection_protocol: "https"
    movement_da_light_node_connection_hostname: "m1-da-light-node.mainnet"
    movement_da_light_node_connection_port: "443"

    aws_region: "us-west-1"
    rev: "{{ movement_container_version }}"

```

#### Bardock Testnet Configuration

```yaml

vars:
    repo_url: "https://github.com/movementlabsxyz/movement"
    destination_path: "/home/{{ user }}/movement"
    movement_sync: "follower::mtnet-l-sync-bucket-sync<=>{maptos,maptos-storage,suzuka-da-db}/**"
    chain_id: "250"

    movement_da_light_node_connection_protocol: "https"
    movement_da_light_node_connection_hostname: "m1-da-light-node.testnet.bardock.movementnetwork.xyz"
    movement_da_light_node_connection_port: "443"

    aws_region: "us-west-1"
    rev: "{{ movement_container_version }}"

```

> For synchronization since genesis you need to remove this variable from movement-full-follower.service.j2 file. Remove this line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To synchronize from genesis you need to remove this variable from movement-full-follower.service.j2 file. Remove this line:
```

## Run Locally 

It is easiest to gain quick familiarity with the Movement Follower Node by running it locally.

To do this, ensure you have nix installed. We recommend the Determinate Systems nix installation script. You can find it [here](https://determinate.systems/posts/determinate-nix-installer/).

```bash

curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf -L https://install.determinate.systems/nix | sh -s -- install

```

After installing `nix`, clone the Movement repository and open the `nix-shell` environment.

```bash

# if you have not cloned the repository yet
git clone https://github.com/movementlabsxyz/movement
cd movement
git checkout 6e00b778ee7d8139b153aa4eb80805aead07e252
nix develop

```

This should install all dependencies needed to work on the Movement Follower Node.

You can now either run the follower node natively or with our containers via the provided just commands.

First create, an environment file for the follower node. The example below is for the Movement Testnet Bardock. Comments are made on how to change the environment file for other networks.

```
CONTAINER_REV=6e00b778ee7d8139b153aa4eb80805aead07e252

> DOT_MOVEMENT_PATH=./.movement

Reviewer: Is this correct `./.movement`? Should it not be `.movement/`?

Author: It's the same. I take this part from the original doc so I didn't change it.
